content/papers/paper-quadrilatero-2014.md, before:

title: Imaging iron ore from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil) using geophysical inversion and drill hole data
date: 01-09-2014
author: Carlos, D. U., L. Uieda, and V. C. F. Barbosa
slug: paper-quadrilatero-2014
pdf: paper-quadrilatero-2014.pdf
journal: Ore Geology Reviews
doi: 10.1016/j.oregeorev.2014.02.011
thumbnail: images/thumb/paper-quadrilatero-2014.png
citation: Carlos, D. U., L. Uieda, and V. C. F. Barbosa (2014), Imaging iron ore from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil) using geophysical inversion and drill hole data, Ore Geology Reviews, 61, 268-285, doi:10.1016/j.oregeorev.2014.02.011

## Abstract

The Quadrilátero Ferrífero in southeastern Brazil hosts one of the largest
concentrations of lateritic iron ore deposits in the world. Our study area is
over the southern flank of the Gandarela syncline which is one of the regional
synclines of the Quadrilátero Ferrífero. The Gandarela syncline is considered
the Brazilian megastructure with the highest perspectives for iron ore
exploration. Most of the iron-ore deposits from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero are
non-outcropping bodies hosted in the oxidized, metamorphosed and
heterogeneously deformed banded iron formations. Therefore, the assessment of
the 3D geometry of the iron-ore body is of the utmost importance for estimating
reserves and production development planning. We carried out a quantitative
interpretation of the iron-ore deposit of the southern flank of the Gandarela
syncline using a 3D inversion of airborne gravity-gradient data to estimate the
shape of the iron-ore mineralization. The retrieved body is characterized by a
high-density zone associated with the northeast-elongated iron formation. The
thickness and the width of the retrieved iron-ore body vary along its strike
increasing southwestward. The presence of a large volume of iron ore in the
southwest portion of the study area may be due to the hinge zone of the
Gandarela syncline, which is the zone of maximum compression. Our estimated
iron-ore mass reveals variable dip directions. In the southernmost, central and
northernmost portions of the study area, the estimated iron body dips,
respectively, inwards, vertically and outwards with respect to the syncline
axis. Previous geological mapping indicated continuous mineralization. However,
our result suggests a quasi-continuous iron-ore body. In the central part of
the study area, the estimated iron-ore body is segmented into two parts. This
breakup may be related to the northwest-trending faults, which are
perpendicular to the northeast-trending axis of the Gandarela syncline. Our
estimated iron-ore mass agrees reasonably well with the information provided
from the lithologic logging data of drill holes. In this geophysical study, the
estimated iron-ore reserves are approximately 3 billion tons.

## Bibtex

    @article{carlos2014,
        title = {Imaging iron ore from the {Quadrilátero} {Ferrífero} ({Brazil})
            using geophysical inversion and drill hole data},
        volume = {61},
        issn = {0169-1368},
        doi = {10.1016/j.oregeorev.2014.02.011},
        journal = {Ore Geology Reviews},
        author = {Carlos, Dionísio U. and Uieda, Leonardo and Barbosa,
            Valeria C. F.},
        month = sep,
        year = {2014},
        pages = {268--285}
    }

Commit message:

Comment about software used in quadrilatero

content/papers/paper-quadrilatero-2014.md, after:

title: Imaging iron ore from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil) using geophysical inversion and drill hole data
date: 01-09-2014
author: Carlos, D. U., L. Uieda, and V. C. F. Barbosa
slug: paper-quadrilatero-2014
pdf: paper-quadrilatero-2014.pdf
journal: Ore Geology Reviews
doi: 10.1016/j.oregeorev.2014.02.011
thumbnail: images/thumb/paper-quadrilatero-2014.png
citation: Carlos, D. U., L. Uieda, and V. C. F. Barbosa (2014), Imaging iron ore from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil) using geophysical inversion and drill hole data, Ore Geology Reviews, 61, 268-285, doi:10.1016/j.oregeorev.2014.02.011

## Open-source implementation

This paper uses the planting inversion proposed in
[our 2012 paper]({filename}/papers/paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012.md).
We used the implementation in the open-source
[Fatiando a Terra](http://www.fatiando.org) Python library
(the `fatiando.gravmag.harvester` module).
The module was introduced in
[version 0.1](http://www.fatiando.org/changelog.html#version-0-1)
of the library.

## Abstract

The Quadrilátero Ferrífero in southeastern Brazil hosts one of the largest
concentrations of lateritic iron ore deposits in the world. Our study area is
over the southern flank of the Gandarela syncline which is one of the regional
synclines of the Quadrilátero Ferrífero. The Gandarela syncline is considered
the Brazilian megastructure with the highest perspectives for iron ore
exploration. Most of the iron-ore deposits from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero are
non-outcropping bodies hosted in the oxidized, metamorphosed and
heterogeneously deformed banded iron formations. Therefore, the assessment of
the 3D geometry of the iron-ore body is of the utmost importance for estimating
reserves and production development planning. We carried out a quantitative
interpretation of the iron-ore deposit of the southern flank of the Gandarela
syncline using a 3D inversion of airborne gravity-gradient data to estimate the
shape of the iron-ore mineralization. The retrieved body is characterized by a
high-density zone associated with the northeast-elongated iron formation. The
thickness and the width of the retrieved iron-ore body vary along its strike
increasing southwestward. The presence of a large volume of iron ore in the
southwest portion of the study area may be due to the hinge zone of the
Gandarela syncline, which is the zone of maximum compression. Our estimated
iron-ore mass reveals variable dip directions. In the southernmost, central and
northernmost portions of the study area, the estimated iron body dips,
respectively, inwards, vertically and outwards with respect to the syncline
axis. Previous geological mapping indicated continuous mineralization. However,
our result suggests a quasi-continuous iron-ore body. In the central part of
the study area, the estimated iron-ore body is segmented into two parts. This
breakup may be related to the northwest-trending faults, which are
perpendicular to the northeast-trending axis of the Gandarela syncline. Our
estimated iron-ore mass agrees reasonably well with the information provided
from the lithologic logging data of drill holes. In this geophysical study, the
estimated iron-ore reserves are approximately 3 billion tons.

## Bibtex

    @article{carlos2014,
        title = {Imaging iron ore from the {Quadrilátero} {Ferrífero} ({Brazil})
            using geophysical inversion and drill hole data},
        volume = {61},
        issn = {0169-1368},
        doi = {10.1016/j.oregeorev.2014.02.011},
        journal = {Ore Geology Reviews},
        author = {Carlos, Dionísio U. and Uieda, Leonardo and Barbosa,
            Valeria C. F.},
        month = sep,
        year = {2014},
        pages = {268--285}
    }
