content/papers/paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012.md, before:

title: Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by planting anomalous densities
author: Uieda, L. and V.C.F. Barbosa
date: 01-07-2012
slug: paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012
pdf: paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012.pdf
repository: pinga-lab/paper-planting-densities
doi: 10.1190/geo2011-0388.1
journal: Geophysics
supplement: 10.6084/m9.figshare.91574
citation: Uieda, L., and V. C. F. Barbosa (2012), Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by planting anomalous densities, Geophysics, 77(4), G55-G66, doi:10.1190/geo2011-0388.1
thumbnail: images/thumb/paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012.png

## Extra supplement

Animation of the groth algorithm:
[10.6084/m9.figshare.91469](http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.91469)


<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="http://wl.figshare.com/articles/91469/embed?show_title=0"
width="568" height="481" frameborder="0"></iframe>
</div>


## Abstract

We have developed a new gravity gradient inversion method for estimating a 3D
density-contrast distribution defined on a grid of rectangular prisms. Our
method consists of an iterative algorithm that does not require the solution of
an equation system. Instead, the solution grows systematically around
user-specified prismatic elements, called “seeds,” with given density
contrasts. Each seed can be assigned a different density-contrast value,
allowing the interpretation of multiple sources with different density
contrasts and that produce interfering signals. In real world scenarios, some
sources might not be targeted for the interpretation. Thus, we developed a
robust procedure that neither requires the isolation of the signal of the
targeted sources prior to the inversion nor requires substantial prior
information about the nontargeted sources. In our iterative algorithm, the
estimated sources grow by the accretion of prisms in the periphery of the
current estimate. In addition, only the columns of the sensitivity matrix
corresponding to the prisms in the periphery of the current estimate are needed
for the computations. Therefore, the individual columns of the sensitivity
matrix can be calculated on demand and deleted after an accretion takes place,
greatly reducing the demand for computer memory and processing time. Tests on
synthetic data show the ability of our method to correctly recover the geometry
of the targeted sources, even when interfering signals produced by nontargeted
sources are present. Inverting the data from an airborne gravity gradiometry
survey flown over the iron ore province of Quadrilátero Ferrífero, southeastern
Brazil, we estimated a compact iron ore body that is in agreement with geologic
information and previous interpretations.

## Bibtex


    @article{uieda2012,
        title = {Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by planting anomalous densities},
        volume = {77},
        issn = {00168033},
        doi = {10.1190/geo2011-0388.1},
        number = {4},
        journal = {Geophysics},
        author = {Uieda, Leonardo and Barbosa, Valéria C. F.},
        year = {2012},
        pages = {G55--G66},
    }

Commit message:

Link to Fatiando implementation of planting inversion

content/papers/paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012.md, after:

title: Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by planting anomalous densities
author: Uieda, L. and V.C.F. Barbosa
date: 01-07-2012
slug: paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012
pdf: paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012.pdf
repository: pinga-lab/paper-planting-densities
doi: 10.1190/geo2011-0388.1
journal: Geophysics
supplement: 10.6084/m9.figshare.91574
citation: Uieda, L., and V. C. F. Barbosa (2012), Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by planting anomalous densities, Geophysics, 77(4), G55-G66, doi:10.1190/geo2011-0388.1
thumbnail: images/thumb/paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012.png

## Open-source implementation

The inversion method proposed in this paper is implemented in the open-source
[Fatiando a Terra](http://www.fatiando.org) Python library
as the `fatiando.gravmag.harvester` module.
The module was introduced in
[version 0.1](http://www.fatiando.org/changelog.html#version-0-1)
of the library.

## Visualizing the algorithm

The following is an animation of the growth algorithm
during the inversion of synthetic data.
The video is available at [figshare](http://figshare.com/):
[10.6084/m9.figshare.91469](http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.91469)

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe src="http://wl.figshare.com/articles/91469/embed?show_title=0"
width="568" height="481" frameborder="0"></iframe>
</div>

## Abstract

We have developed a new gravity gradient inversion method for estimating a 3D
density-contrast distribution defined on a grid of rectangular prisms. Our
method consists of an iterative algorithm that does not require the solution of
an equation system. Instead, the solution grows systematically around
user-specified prismatic elements, called “seeds,” with given density
contrasts. Each seed can be assigned a different density-contrast value,
allowing the interpretation of multiple sources with different density
contrasts and that produce interfering signals. In real world scenarios, some
sources might not be targeted for the interpretation. Thus, we developed a
robust procedure that neither requires the isolation of the signal of the
targeted sources prior to the inversion nor requires substantial prior
information about the nontargeted sources. In our iterative algorithm, the
estimated sources grow by the accretion of prisms in the periphery of the
current estimate. In addition, only the columns of the sensitivity matrix
corresponding to the prisms in the periphery of the current estimate are needed
for the computations. Therefore, the individual columns of the sensitivity
matrix can be calculated on demand and deleted after an accretion takes place,
greatly reducing the demand for computer memory and processing time. Tests on
synthetic data show the ability of our method to correctly recover the geometry
of the targeted sources, even when interfering signals produced by nontargeted
sources are present. Inverting the data from an airborne gravity gradiometry
survey flown over the iron ore province of Quadrilátero Ferrífero, southeastern
Brazil, we estimated a compact iron ore body that is in agreement with geologic
information and previous interpretations.

## Bibtex


    @article{uieda2012,
        title = {Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by planting anomalous densities},
        volume = {77},
        issn = {00168033},
        doi = {10.1190/geo2011-0388.1},
        number = {4},
        journal = {Geophysics},
        author = {Uieda, Leonardo and Barbosa, Valéria C. F.},
        year = {2012},
        pages = {G55--G66},
    }
