content/papers/paper-tle-euler-tutorial-2014.md, before:

title: Geophysical tutorial: Euler deconvolution of potential-field data
date: 01-04-2014
slug: paper-tle-euler-tutorial-2014
author: Uieda, L., V. C. Oliveira Jr, and V. C. F. Barbosa
repository: pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial
doi: 10.1190/tle33040448.1
journal: The Leading Edge
tags: OA
supplement: 10.6084/m9.figshare.923450
thumbnail: images/thumb/paper-tle-euler-tutorial-2014.png
citation: Uieda, L., V. C. Oliveira Jr, and V. C. F. Barbosa (2014), Geophysical tutorial: Euler deconvolution of potential-field data, The Leading Edge, 33(4), 448-450, doi:10.1190/tle33040448.1

<div class="alert alert-success">
This article is also available at the
<a class="alert-link"
   href="http://wiki.seg.org/wiki/Euler_deconvolution_of_potential_field_data_%28tutorial%29">SEG wiki</a>
where it can edited and improved.
</div>

## Abstract

In this tutorial we'll talk about a widely used method of interpretation for
potential-field data called Euler deconvolution. Our goal is to demonstrate its
usefulness and, most importantly, call attention to some pitfalls encountered
in the interpretation of the results. The code and synthetic data required to
reproduce our results and figures can be found in the accompanying IPython
notebooks ([ipython.org/notebook](http://ipython.org/notebook))
at [dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.923450](http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.923450)
or [github.com/pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial](https://github.com/pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial).
The notebooks also expand the
analysis presented here. We encourage you to download the data and try it on
your software of choice. For this tutorial we'll use the implementation in the
open-source Python package Fatiando a Terra
([fatiando.org](http://fatiando.org)).

## Bibtex

    @article{uieda2014,
        title = {Geophysical tutorial: {Euler} deconvolution of potential-field data},
        volume = {33},
        issn = {1070-485X, 1938-3789},
        doi = {10.1190/tle33040448.1},
        number = {4},
        journal = {The Leading Edge},
        author = {Uieda, Leonardo and Oliveira Jr., Vanderlei C. and Barbosa, Valéria C. F.},
        month = apr,
        year = {2014},
        pages = {448--450}
    }

Commit message:

More info about the euler tutorial

content/papers/paper-tle-euler-tutorial-2014.md, after:

title: Geophysical tutorial: Euler deconvolution of potential-field data
date: 01-04-2014
slug: paper-tle-euler-tutorial-2014
author: Uieda, L., V. C. Oliveira Jr, and V. C. F. Barbosa
repository: pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial
doi: 10.1190/tle33040448.1
journal: The Leading Edge
tags: OA
supplement: 10.6084/m9.figshare.923450
thumbnail: images/thumb/paper-tle-euler-tutorial-2014.png
citation: Uieda, L., V. C. Oliveira Jr, and V. C. F. Barbosa (2014), Geophysical tutorial: Euler deconvolution of potential-field data, The Leading Edge, 33(4), 448-450, doi:10.1190/tle33040448.1

<div class="alert alert-success">
This article is also available at the
<a class="alert-link"
   href="http://wiki.seg.org/wiki/Euler_deconvolution_of_potential_field_data_%28tutorial%29">SEG wiki</a>
where it can edited and improved.
</div>

## About

This article is part of the
[Geophysical Tutorials](http://wiki.seg.org/wiki/Geophysical_tutorials)
section in [The Leading Edge](http://library.seg.org/journal/leedff),
started by Matt Hall of [Agile Geoscience](http://agilegeoscience.com/).
All tutorials are Open-Access and include open-source code examples.
Read the
[February 2016 tutorial](http://dx.doi.org/10.1190/tle35020190.1) by Matt
for an introduction to the tutorial series
and what you need to know to get started running the code in them.

## Open-source implementation

This article uses the Euler deconvolution implemented in
[Fatiando a Terra](http://www.fatiando.org),
an open-source Python library.
See the repository
[pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial](https://github.com/pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial)
for the source code that accompanies the article
and extra material.

## Abstract

In this tutorial we'll talk about a widely used method of interpretation for
potential-field data called Euler deconvolution. Our goal is to demonstrate its
usefulness and, most importantly, call attention to some pitfalls encountered
in the interpretation of the results. The code and synthetic data required to
reproduce our results and figures can be found in the accompanying IPython
notebooks ([ipython.org/notebook](http://ipython.org/notebook))
at [dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.923450](http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.923450)
or [github.com/pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial](https://github.com/pinga-lab/paper-tle-euler-tutorial).
The notebooks also expand the
analysis presented here. We encourage you to download the data and try it on
your software of choice. For this tutorial we'll use the implementation in the
open-source Python package Fatiando a Terra
([fatiando.org](http://fatiando.org)).

## Bibtex

    @article{uieda2014,
        title = {Geophysical tutorial: {Euler} deconvolution of potential-field data},
        volume = {33},
        issn = {1070-485X, 1938-3789},
        doi = {10.1190/tle33040448.1},
        number = {4},
        journal = {The Leading Edge},
        author = {Uieda, Leonardo and Oliveira Jr., Vanderlei C. and Barbosa, Valéria C. F.},
        month = apr,
        year = {2014},
        pages = {448--450}
    }
